So in a real world instance,
you have thousands and thousands and
thousands of containers,
these thousands of instances and
you see how easy they are to come around.
We need some way of bringing them online,
upgrading them taking offline,
it's a whole job of people to do this.
So we call this orchestration, bringing
the servers online freaking offline.
The one you've probably most
heard of is Kubernetes, so
you may have heard this term and
you're like, what does it do?
That's what Kubernetes does,
it manages your containers for you.
As you can tell by us just creating
one and then we created another one,
that's pretty manual.
But we've used something like Kubernetes
or even Docker Swarm or Apache Mesos,
we can create hundreds of
containers at one time.
They're all running the exact
same instance of our application,
and that's what we call orchestration.
Obviously, we're not going to
create hundreds of containers,
it's not super practical for
this instance.
And Kubernetes is probably its own lesson,
is there a front-end master's
course on Kubernetes?
>> Brian holds course, complete intro to
containers gets deeper into Docker and
has a section that covers Kubernetes.
>> Yeah, so if you want to dive more into
containers, there's a course for that for
any masters,
it's a whole whole thing going.
So I talked about earlier
we have two containers now,
how do we get Nginx to talk to it?
We're going to use a load balancer, and
we need a load balancer because what
if one of our servers is overloaded?
But we have two servers, but
all the traffic is going to one,
that doesn't make sense.
Why do we have multiple servers?
So we can tell Nginx, if there's
servers running at 90% of CPU time,
why don't we route the request
to the one that's running lower?
In that way we balance the load across all
of our servers this is a really important
concepts if you're talking about
multi container deployments.
There's different types of algorithms, and
they're called scheduling algorithms for
deciding which one is should go to,
round robin is default, so that just
means 1, 2, 3, start again 1, 2, 3.
There's IP hashing, so you're saying
all IPs from this particular block or
domain go here,
all IPs from this one go here.
There's random, implied, random,
don't really know what that one's good for
but you know.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah?
>> There's a really cool article on
two random choice choose the least
connections and least load you have
to sample over all your servers.
If you have a lot of them that might take
a while, if you do true random choices and
choose the loss of the two, and you get
that surprisingly even distribution.
>> Yeah.
>> And you only have to look
at two instead of 1000.
>> Yeah, that's good thinking, you take
random choices and then you parse those
down the least connections versus
getting those server load for each one.
Yeah, that's realy sharp, yeah.
And one of the scheduling algorithms we
can use is least connections, but again
there's a cost too, you have to know how
many connections are on current server.
Then there's least load, again, you
have to measure the load of each server.
And I've talked about load but we haven't
actually looked at how to see that.
So run the htop command in your terminal,
I'll go ahead and do that too, htop.
And that shows a kind of nice breakdown
of what exactly are servers doing.
I wanna say a Mac equivalent would
be like, application monitor?
No, someone remind me.
>> Activity monitor.
>> Activity monitor, I never remember
activity monitor, I don't know why.
And pretty similar concepts, this one's
much shinier because it's actually GUI.
But this is useful if you're like,
why is my server so slow?
We can look at and see there's
a node process that's running, so
we can just peek kill that node and
watch our server load drop,
so right now our server loads pretty good.
We're only using point 0.1, 0.7% and
we have all our a lot of free memory
full So I just Ctrl C out of that.
So htop is nice to know,
see what your servers actually doing.
So now let's implement a load balancer in
Nginx because we now have two servers so
we can actually load balance
from one to the other.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to create an upstream something called
an upstream, and that just says,
hey, these are actually my server
clusters that I want to connect to.
We give it a name, we'll probably call
this node back end or something like that.
We give it a list of the servers
that belong to that server cluster.
And then in our server block we just
proxy path to that server cluster and
Nginx will take care of the rest for us.
And if we want to implement a different
algorithm in that upstream,
we can say at least con, but
we'll keep it at default as round robin.
So let's go ahead and do that now.